Charter
=======

PURPOSE
-------

To ensure sufficient quantity of competent sysadmins exists to
support a stable civilization; to bring about greater agreement
on what makes a competent sysadmin and how to make one, the LOPSA
zeroth Working Committee on Professionalization will recommend to
the Board a definition of what 'profession' means in the context
of Systems Administration.

This would enable a gap analysis (where do we want to be; where are
we now; what do we need to do to get from where we are now to where
we want to be); however the gap analysis or the implementation of
the remediation plan would be outside the scope of this working
committee. We envision that with the success of the zeroth working
committee, subsequent working committees would advance the purpose
further, one bite at a time.

The LOPSA Board of Directors shall appoint a current LOPSA member in
good standing to be the Professionalization Committee Chair. If the
Professionalization Chair is not a current member of the LOPSA Board
of Directors, a liaison shall be appointed to the Professionalization
Committee from among the current LOPSA Board of Directors. The
Professionalization Chair shall then select other committee members
from the community at will and as needed, an an ongoing basis.

The Professionalization Committee shall conduct its work by
evaluating various definitions of 'profession', as well as standards
required by equivalent associations in other professions. An outside
expert on professions and professionalization may be consulted.

TIMELINE
--------

The Professionalization Committee shall present definition of
"Profession" to the LOPSA Board of Directors no later than June
30th, 2014. If the LOPSA Board of Directors chooses to reject
the proposed definition, immediate notice shall be given to
the Professionalization Chair following the decision, and the
Professionalization Committee shall repeat the process of drafting
and re-presenting the definition by October 31st, 2014. If the
LOPSA Board of Directors rejects the revised proposal, the working
committee shall be disbanded.

If the LOPSA Board of Directors accepts the definition, this
definition shall be communicated to the LOPSA membership at large no
later than December 31st, 2014, and the working Committee dismissed
with thanks. The Board may then plan a roadmap for continuing work
on the furtherance of this project, and direct that a new Committee
to continue the work is formed and so empowered, on a time schedule
acceptable to the Board.

TIMELINE SUMMARY
----------------

30 Jun 2014 - present definition of "Profession" as pertaining
              to System Administration
31 Oct 2014 - re-present definition of "Profession" if needed
31 Dec 2014 - publish the definition

The Professionalization Chair will be responsible for communicating
all relevant needs to the LOPSA Board of Directors, through the
liaison if such a position exists. This includes, but is not limited
to, technical, financial, or marketing requirements, unless an
alternative communication channel is sanctioned and available.

Policy
------

The LOPSA Professional Content Committee (PCC) is a short term
working committee established for the expressed purpose of laying
the groundwork upon which future efforts to further the professional
nature of system administration work can be built.  The Board of
Directors will appoint a current LOPSA member in good standing to
serve as Chair, and if that individual is not a member of the LOPSA
Board, a liaison to the committee will also be selected from among
the Board members.

A definitive timeline for the work of this committee is laid out
in the charter, and the committee will be dissolved following the
completion of its work.

For the initial instance of the PCC, the goal will be to determine
an acceptable definition for the term "profession", as it pertains
to system administration, which will be adopted by LOPSA when
evaluating its efforts to further the art and science of system
administration. This common language will allow LOPSA to go forward
with a clear understanding of its bailiwick and with the goal the
future instances of this committee can utilize this work and expand
upon it.
